Reporting: Update docs (#23993)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/http_api.md

+++
title = "Enterprise HTTP APIs"
description = "Grafana Enterprise APIs"
keywords = ["grafana", "enterprise", "api"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/http_api/"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "HTTP APIs"
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 1000
+++

> # Enterprise HTTP APIs

Reviewer: Add an intro here and to each h2. It can be short, but it should set the context so the reader knows what to expect in the document or section.

## Authentication

To access the API you need to authenticate yourself. For more information about API authentication, refer to [Authentication API]({{< relref "../http_api/auth.md" >}}).

## Reporting API

> 

Reviewer: Need an intro here. Something like

This API allows you to interact programmatically with the [Reporting](LINK) feature.

> ### Send report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send a report
```

> ### Manually send report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Send report
```
I think the "manually" part is included in the fact that it's an API endpoint

> Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.0+.

`POST /api/reports/email`

> Generate and send a report. This API waits for the report to be generated before returning. You are recommended to set the client's timeout to 60 seconds or more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate and send a report. This API waits for the report to be generated before returning. We recommend that you set the client's timeout to at least 60 seconds.
```

> This API endpoint is experimental and may be deprecated in a future release. On deprecation, a migration strategy will be provided and the endpoint will remain functional until the next major release of Grafana.

Reviewer: You need to lead with this. Is it just reports/email that is experimental, or is it the whole reporting API? Put it as high up in the hierarchy as makes sense.

Author: Just the `POST /api/reports/email` endpoint.

> **Example request:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example request
```

```http
POST /api/reports/email HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json

> Content-Type: application/json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content-type: application/json
```

Author: The name of the header is `Content-Type`, see https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Type

Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "id":"3",
  "useEmailsFromReport": true
}
```

> JSON Body Schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JSON body schema
```

> field name | type | description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Field name | Type | Description
```

Reviewer: Can you be more specific about "type"? Data type? Entry type?

---------- | ---- | -----------

> id | string | ID of the report to send (same as in the URL when editing a report, not to be confused with the ID of the dashboard). Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id | string | ID of the report to send. It is the same as in the URL when editing a report, not to be confused with the ID of the dashboard. Required.
```

emails | string | Comma-separated list of emails to which to send the report to. Overrides the emails from the report. Required if **useEmailsFromReport** is not present.
useEmailsFromReport | boolean | Send the report to the emails specified in the report. Required if **emails** is not present.

> **Example response:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example response
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 29

{"message":"Report was sent"}
```

> Status Codes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Status codes
```

> code | description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code | Description
```

---- | -----------

> 200 | Report was sent

Reviewer: Put periods at the ends of these sentences.
